[Ready for review] Chapter on naming (#904)
alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way: book/content/naming/naming.md

# Naming files, folders and other things 

## Prerequisites / recommended skill level

None.

## Summary

Good names for files, folders and other things can make your life and the life of collaborators and other people using your research much easier.
It allows others to understand what the digital object is about and at the same time good names are easy for computers to understand and process.

> ## How this will help you/ why this is useful

Author: I remember you correcting this also in my other PR. I think we should update the chapter template, because I just took it from there.

Using good names is probably the easiest way to improve reproducibility and reusability of your research project.

## Chapter content

There are three principles to naming things. The first two apply to all kinds of things. The third is optional and especially valuable for files. File names should be:

1. Machine readable
2. Human readable

> 3. Optional: Play well with default ordering

Author: It means that you start the name with letters/numbers that create the order of the files. 

For example:

- a_intro
- b_methods
- c_discussion

or 

- 2020_03_poster_for _conference_a
- 2019_10_talk_institute
- 2019_08_lightning_talk

I took the phrasing used by Jenny Brian. I am not sure how to say it differently. Any suggestions? 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/14146757/76597226-36156a80-6500-11ea-9c3b-b092e4ad719b.png)
http://www2.stat.duke.edu/~rcs46/lectures_2015/01-markdown-git/slides/naming-slides/naming-slides.pdf

Do you think it is not enough to explain it as I did below?

> 3. Optional: Play well with default ordering

Reviewer: It was clear after I read that later in the chapter. Thank you so much!

Let's look at some examples of bad (No) and good (Yes) file names.

| No               | Yes              |
| -----------------|------------------|
|`Myabstract.docx` | `2020-06-08_abstract-for-sla.docx` |
|`Joe’s Filenames Use Spaces and Punctuation.xlsx` | `Joes-filenames-are-getting-better.xlsx` |
|`figure 1.png` | `Fig01_scatterplot-talk-length-vs-interest.png` |
|`fig 2.png` | `Fig02_histogram-talk-attendance.png` |
|`JW7d^(2sl@deletethisandyourcareerisoverWx2*.txt` | `1986-01-28_raw-data-from-challenger-o-rings.txt` |

## Checklist
> this can be done at the end or maybe as a separate checklist exercise, but please do note things down here as you go

## What to learn next
> recommended next chapters that are a good next step up

## Further reading

The ideas for this chapter are taken from Jenny Brian's slide deck on [naming things](http://www2.stat.duke.edu/~rcs46/lectures_2015/01-markdown-git/slides/naming-slides/naming-slides.pdf).

## Definitions/glossary

> > Link to the glossary here or copy in key concepts/definitions that readers should be aware of to get the most out of this chapter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Naming convention**: In computer programming, a naming convention is a set of rules for choosing the character sequence to be used for naming an entity in source code and documentation. 

File naming convention is a term that is used to indicate such rule for naming files within a project, team or organisation.
```

## Bibliography

> > Credit/urls for any materials that form part of the chapter's text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- Jenny Brian's slide deck on [naming things](https://speakerdeck.com/jennybc/how-to-name-files).
- File naming and file structure recommendations by [Research Data Management at Princeton](https://libguides.princeton.edu/c.php?g=102546&p=930626)
```

|`JW7d^(2sl@deletethisandyourcareerisoverWx2*.txt` | `1986-01-28_raw-data-from-challenger-o-rings.txt` |

### Machine readable

Names of digital components should be easy to understand for computers.
Computers like names to have no spaces, deliberate use of delimiters, and no special or accented characters.
Also computers are case sensitive, so for them `cat.txt` and `Cat.txt` are different files.

Good file/folder names are easy to search for (also using regular expressions) and easy to compute on (for example by splitting on `_` characters).

### Human readable

> To achieve human readability, it is helpful to have a name that contains information on the content of the file/folder or other thing. For URLs this consept is called [clean URL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clean_URL).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Human readable

To achieve human readability, it is helpful to have short (< 25 characters) but descriptive names that contain information on the content of the file/folder.
Word boundaries in the file name can be indicated by using medial capitalization called a camel case, e.g. FileName, or underscore ("_"), e.g. file_name.
File names should not have any spaces or other special characters.

For web links, i.e. Uniform Resource Locator (URL), this concept is called [clean URL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clean_URL).
```

### Play well with default ordering

To create a good default ordering, adding number at the beginning of the name, is often a good idea. 
Imagine you have a folder with als you presentation slides, it would probably be helpful to have them ordered by date. 
So starting the file names with `year-month-day` (for example `2020-02-21`), does that for you.
We recommend using something like the [ISO 8601 standard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601) for dates. 
If you use other number, we recommend left padding them with zeros, because your computer will order `003 < 004 < 020 < 100` as opposed to `100 < 20 < 3 < 4`. 
From experience we know that naming folders according to a logical number can lead to a mess if the ordering changes.

> For example you have book chapter folders `01_introduction`, `02_naming_files`, `03_naming_folders`, and so on and then you decide to change the order or try to squeeze in a folder in between `01_introduction` and `02_naming_files`, this leads to more downsides than upsides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Optional: Maintain default ordering

To create a good default ordering, i.e sorted in ascending order based on file version or chronology, adding a number or date at the beginning of the name is often a good idea. 
For instance, we often organize all our slide decks created on different dates in the same folder. 
To sort them by date of creation, we can start the file names with `year-month-day` (for example `2020-02-21`).
We recommend using something like the [ISO 8601 standard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601) for dates. 
If you use other number, we recommend left padding them with zeros, because your computer will order `003 < 004 < 020 < 100` as opposed to `100 < 20 < 3 < 4`. 

Naming folders according to a logical number can lead to a mess if the ordering changes in the future.
For example, there is a folder with the book chapters `01_introduction`, `02_naming_files`, and `03_naming_folders`. The author writes a preface of the book and decides to squeeze it before the introduction chapter. This would mean that they will have to rename all the files. 
This happens a lot and clearly, this has more downsides than upsides.
```

Author: I fixed a typo in your suggestion. Can we somehow get rid of the "i.e"? 
Otherwise I think it is great!

## Further reading

> The ideas for this chapter are taken from Jenny Brian's slide deck on [naming things](https://speakerdeck.com/jennybc/how-to-name-files).

Author: Nice! Thanks for digging these up!
